Good afternoon.
My name is JD Mankovsky.
I manage Apple's
Professional Services and wanted to
start by just asking a few questions
in the audience and get a show of hands
and make sure you're paying attention.
So how many of you have Xsan today
deployed in your environment?
Wow.
That's excellent.
Well, thank you very much.
And we're going to talk a little bit
about Xsan 2 and I'm sure -- how many
people are still running Xsan 1.4 today?
Okay.
So hopefully this session
will be useful for you.
How many people are looking to deploy
Xsan in the next six to 12 months?
Okay.
Excellent.
Jason Thorpe is going to be my colleague,
my partner in crime here.
Jason manages the server engineering
group and specifically Xsan as well.
So he'll come over and share
some of his best practices
around some specific topics here.
What you're going to learn
today and that's really...
What you're going to learn today
is really what's new in Xsan 2.
And we'll talk about some best practices.
Now,
they're not all up on the slide here.
It would be multiple
slides to go through it.
So those are some of the highlights.
You know,
some really important integration.
and Jason Thorpe, the founder of Xsan 2.
You know, configurations and tips that
you should know of even before
you even deploy your Xsan.
And we'll talk about performance and
optimization and redundancy now that
we've got some nice new features
and multi-pathing and new storage.
Lots of fun stuff to talk about.
And finally, we'll have time for Q&A.
The session should be about an hour,
and we'll have 15 minutes for Q&A,
and then you can join us
at the lab downstairs,
So what I'd like to do now is bring
up Jason Thorpe and talk to you
quickly about what's new in Xsan 2.
Jason?
Thanks JD.
Good afternoon.
So last year -- who came last
year's session introducing XAN2?
Raise your hands.
Okay.
Great.
So there's a lot of you who
did not see that presentation.
So let's cover what is new in XAN2
that's actually really interesting.
So the first thing is we have a brand-new
XAN admin application that really
streamlines the administration tasks,
the setup, no more hopping through panes.
There's very assistant oriented in XSAN2.
Next is we have a
feature called MultiSAN.
This is particularly interesting if
you're deploying multiple volumes in
an environment where uptime is really
critical for certain environments and
allows you to better utilize the server
hardware that you deploy Xsan on.
We're going to cover that in a little
more detail here later on in this talk.
And then finally,
Xsan 2 also introduced full
support for Spotlight using the
same architecture that we have for
Spotlight Server and Mac OS X Server.
And not much more to say about that.
The two things that we're really
going to talk about today are the new
Xsan Admin Application and MultiSAN.
So,
for those of you who are not familiar,
let's kind of just give you a
brief primer on how Xsan works.
So, first let's take a look at a
traditional file sharing environment.
We have some storage and you have
a file server and you have clients
that are connected to that file
server over gigabit Ethernet.
All the data is flowing through
the server which in turn pulls the
data from the high-speed storage.
Now, if you notice in the diagram there,
there's a big fat pipe between
the storage and the server,
but there are these teeny
little thin pipes between the
server and all the clients.
And that is the sort of main
disadvantage of using this sort of
traditional file sharing environment.
You're limited by the gigabit
network connection that's between
the client and the server.
Furthermore,
all those clients are actually
sharing one connection to the server
because the server not just has
one port out to the rest of the LAN.
Now, if you contrast that to Xsan,
we still have a server,
we call it the Xsan Controller,
but the main difference here
is that those clients are all
directly connected to the storage
through a fiber channel switch,
which if you notice in the diagram here,
those pipes are a little fatter than
they were in the previous slide.
That enables the clients to basically
get the full bandwidth from the
storage into their application.
The controller is there primarily
to handle namespace operations,
so creating a file, renaming a file,
looking up files,
and figuring out where on the
storage that the file lives,
but no data flows through
the Xsan Controller.
So, main advantage of this, of course,
is that as you add storage,
the performance scales up,
and that's because you can take
advantage of the multi-pathing
support in the Mac OS X storage stack,
and with the new Promise RAID,
we can actually take advantage of
multiple paths to that storage as well.
And then finally,
you can actually gain some
high availability by adding
redundant Xsan controllers so
that if one were to go down,
the power failure or, you know,
CPU catches on fire or whatever,
there's another one there
that can take over for you.
So, I'm gonna now hand it back to JD,
who's gonna start
covering best practices.
Thanks, Jason.
So the first thing we
want to cover is power,
cooling and UPS.
So even before you would deploy a Xsan,
you want to make sure that all that,
that the house is in order, right?
You want to make sure you've
got the right amount of cooling,
that you've got the right amount of
AC and that the power is sufficient
to power up the servers and the
storage and the rest of the equipment.
And we do see a lot of situations where
when we show up and do those deployments,
you know, that those are not in order,
right?
The AC is either not sufficient or,
you know, there's not enough power
coming to the racks and then
you run into situations where,
you know, you get blown fuses and you
bring your data center down
or you might bring your whole,
you know, shop down, which is not a good
situation you want to be in.
So what we usually start with is when
we come in and spec out the Xsan,
we'll basically calculate, you know,
the total amount of wattage required
for the equipment as well as the cooling
and make sure we deliver that to the
customer ahead of time so they can make
sure that that room and the data center
can actually sustain that new equipment.
So just a few examples that are up there,
but obviously a lot of that stuff
is available on our website if
you're looking for specific,
you know,
product specs in terms of wattage
and BTU on the Apple website and a
lot of that stuff is available from,
you know, the Xsan.
So just a few examples that are up there,
but obviously a lot of that stuff
is available on our website if
you're looking for specific,
you know,
product specs in terms of wattage
and BTU on the Apple website and a
lot of that stuff is available from,
you know, the Xsan.
from all the third-party
vendors that would,
you know,
build that Xsan and that video Xsan.
So examples, you know, the Intel Xserve,
750 watts, Promise V-Track,
around 450 watts, and then, you know,
some 3-com switches.
The next thing we want
to talk about is UPSs.
It's really important that
when you deploy a Xsan,
you make sure you've got
the right amount of UPS to
actually sustain a power outage.
And not only should you have one UPS,
you should have redundant
UPSs because again,
you never want a single point
of failure in your system.
So you should at least have two
UPSs and basically with the fact
that you've got dual power supplies,
right, on the servers and on the storage
and the rest of the equipment,
you should make sure that that power
gets distributed across the UPSs.
What's also very important is
to make sure you've got the APC,
you know, SNMP network management card.
And that card is, you know,
something in the order of $200
and it just slides right into
the slot in the back of the UPS.
And that allows you to manage your
UPS and it gives you information such as
once you have your system up and running,
you can literally trigger a test.
It'll tell you your uptime.
So it'll tell you how long your
system can sustain a power failure.
It'll also run battery
checks every month.
So you get email notifications.
Of course, if you set them up,
you get email notifications
that let you know that,
hey, I've checked the UPS and, you know,
the internal check has happened
and all your UPSs are good to go.
So you can just, you know,
understand you're running, you know,
those are lead batteries.
And, you know, there is, you know,
those lead batteries will last
about a year to two years.
So you also need to refresh and
make sure that your UPSs are not,
you know,
collecting dust and they haven't
been touched in five years.
So if you have a UPS and you've got APC,
make sure that those
SNMP cards are in the systems.
And we really recommend not
just a single SNMP card,
but you need to have
one in each of the UPS,
you know, devices.
So very important.
And then finally,
the software is the Parachute software.
And that's a free download and that's
something you would load on the XSERVs
so that when there is a power failure,
you know, when the threshold gets hit,
it sends -- the UPS sends a
notification to the XSERV and will
gracefully shut down the XSERVs,
you know, and bring the system down.
So how does a UPS integration work?
Well, again, you know,
the XSERVs have dual power supplies,
so make sure you order your
XSERVs with dual power supplies,
right?
The Promise RAID has dual power
supplies and then obviously,
you know, you get more than one
UPS and you basically just,
you know,
distribute the load across those UPSs.
Another thing you want to be
careful of is when you build
your XSAN and you calculate the
total amount of wattage required,
right, assume,
if you want to assume that one of
the UPS could potentially fail,
you need to make sure that
that single UPS can sustain
the load of the entire system.
So that's something else
to really look for is,
you know, when we did a test,
we did a big deployment
in Asia a few weeks ago,
we actually made sure that the
entire system was actually,
you know, could work off a single UPS.
So, you know,
a single set of UPS and batteries
that are attached to that system.
So very important to make sure
that all that is in order before
you put your XSAN in production.
You know,
you really want to make sure all those
tests are taken care of ahead of time.
So the network management card,
when you get that card by default,
you know,
there's a little receipt that comes
with it that has the MAC address.
And that is how you configure that card.
So you basically connect
a laptop to the card.
You open up a terminal window.
You send those commands up there.
And make sure you,
before you put the card in,
make sure you actually write
down the MAC address of the card.
And you basically send the ARP command
and you assign an IP address.
Once you assign an IP address,
you can then telnet into the card.
And then you basically
go in and configure,
you know, the subnet and the router.
And then you can then open
up a Safari window and
configure the rest of the UPS,
you know, via Safari.
So, you know, pretty straightforward.
Another nice feature to look
into is Apple Remote Desktop is
a great management tool
that's available from Apple.
And if your system goes down,
if there is a power failure
and your SAN goes down,
when the power gets restored,
all your devices will potentially
all boot up at the same time.
So your storage boots up,
your fiber switches boot up
and your servers boot up.
Well,
it takes time for the storage to come up.
It takes time for the fiber
channel switch to come up.
And we all know how fast our servers
and our desktop machines come up.
They usually come up way quicker than
the storage and the back-end fabric.
So what you can do is you can
actually put a delay so that
when the power gets restored,
the Xsers don't boot up right away.
And it gives time for the server and
the storage to come up ahead of that.
Okay, so very simple command.
It's actually built into
Apple Remote Desktop.
And it's the system setup command.
And now let's talk a little bit
about shutdown procedures and
bring up procedures because,
you know,
that is one thing that is critical
is when you once you've deployed
the system in your data center,
you might be the Xsan admin, right?
I mean,
a lot of you guys are Xsan admins,
but what if you're on vacation, right?
What if there's someone else in the data
center that's maintaining your system?
You know, usually when problems happen,
you have to react very quickly.
You might not be available.
Someone else might need to do that.
So having the shutdown and
the bring up procedure,
you know, clearly illustrated in the
data center by the rack,
where the Xsan is actually located,
will always be a good thing to have
so that whoever's in the data center
follows that procedure to a T.
And obviously the shutdown procedure,
you know, let's assume here, you know,
a major shutdown, which, you know,
if you can do it,
you wanna do a graceful shutdown,
which is unmounting the volumes,
you know,
stopping the volume in the Xsan admin,
you know, the Xsan clients,
you can shut them down or just unmount
the volume from the Xsan clients.
Then you wanna shut down
the secondary MDC first,
shut down the primary.
You can obviously, through the UI,
figure out which one is the
primary and the secondary,
and then shut down, you know,
any RAID tape devices.
And then finally,
if you need to shut down your directory,
your DNS, your DHCP,
you could do that as well.
Not required, obviously.
And then shut down the fiber
channel and the ethernet.
So that's kind of a, you know,
quick synopsis of how
to shut down the system.
Now the startup is
pretty much the reverse,
where you first bring up the
fiber channel and the ethernet,
make sure those come up, right?
Those usually take about a minute
to minute and a half to boot up.
Then you bring up your directory,
your DNS, your DHCP,
and then you bring up your storage,
and then your primary MDC, right?
Your secondary MDC.
And then finally,
any reshare type file server
that might be resharing the SAN.
And then you start the SAN and you
mount the Xsan on your clients.
So what I want to do now
is bring up Jason back for
directory integration and ACLs.
Jason?
Great, thanks JD.
[Transcript missing]
So once you have your
centralized group management,
you can manage your access controls
directly from Xsan Admin as well.
This is something that you no
longer have to use server admin for,
workroom manager for.
You can do it all right from Xsan Admin.
Now, for those of you who have previously
been using workarounds such as,
you know, UMASK and whatnot to
enable collaboration,
you don't have to do that anymore.
Access controls are the way to do that.
If you have Xsan Admin
manage your users and groups,
by default,
we create a workgroup at the top
level that allows you to sort
of collaborate out of the box.
But you can actually have much
finer control using this interface.
So, I'm gonna now hand it back to JD,
and he's going to talk more
about configuring Xsan clients.
Thank you.
So let's talk quickly about
configuring your Xsan 2 clients.
You know, it's pretty straightforward.
The cool thing about Xsan 2 is you don't
even actually have to reboot the clients.
You just install the software and
there is no need to actually reboot.
But some of the things that
we like doing is quite often,
you know,
you're dealing with end users who,
and if you wanna start doing some
troubleshooting as the IT admin,
you know,
you wanna make sure that the NICs,
that the network Ethernet
ports are usually,
you know,
renamed from Ethernet 2 and Ethernet 1,
which doesn't make a lot
of sense to end users,
to something that's more meaningful,
like metadata LAN, you know,
2 and public LAN 1, right?
And that would be
Ethernet 1 and Ethernet 2,
which allows you to quickly
troubleshoot and figure out if some,
by some reason or another,
someone reversed the ports, right?
And flipped around the metadata
LAN with the public LAN.
So some things that are very simple,
but that are gonna help you as IT admins,
you know, troubleshoot an Xsan, you know,
an Xsan client very quickly instead
of like uninstalling and reinstalling.
And, you know,
those again are very easy commands to
send out with Apple Remote Desktop.
And that's,
those are the commands that are up there.
And you can actually do that dynamically.
You can literally have
the network panel up,
send those commands and it
just refreshes in Leopard.
And you can see the renaming
just happen on the fly.
So it's actually pretty
neat and easy to do.
And again, you can do that on all the
machines at the same time
through Apple Remote Desktop.
So let's talk a little bit about
networking and best practices
around network configurations.
You know, the first thing that we always
cover and that's always really
important is no matter what
deployment you do with OS X Server,
you have to have proper DNS working,
right?
And that is essential with Xsan as well.
And that hasn't changed, okay?
So make sure that you always
set up your DNS properly.
And our recommendation is not just
to set up DNS on the public LAN,
but also have DNS working on
the metadata side as well.
And make sure you've got
DNS entries for all of your clients
as well as all your servers,
right?
That's just really important.
And if you're in a bigger deployment
and you've got an IT group,
make sure that you work with
them to get the right amount of
IP addresses for the servers.
You know, remember now we've got
lights out management,
so make sure you get an IP address for
the lights out management on the servers.
And then the promise storage requires
three IP addresses per E plus J unit.
So make sure you've got,
for each of the main controllers,
you need three IP addresses,
two per controller and
one for the virtual IP.
So DNS is always important.
If you see any type of sluggishness,
it's probably your DNS.
So that's usually the main issue that
we see with a big Xsan deployment.
So pretty straightforward and the
new user interface in Leopard is
actually really easy to configure.
So if you need any tips
on troubleshooting,
I think most of you know how to do that.
But you can use dig, hostname, nslookup.
You can also use the change IP,
check hostname command.
That's a server only command.
But again,
it's great if you have a bunch of
servers that are metadata doing ingest,
you can just simply through
Apple Remote Desktop,
send that command out and make sure that
all the servers are configured properly.
One thing I wanted to make clear,
DHCP is not an option with Xsan clients.
Okay,
so you should not be using DHCP or you
could potentially do DHCP with static IP.
Okay, so that's fine, but no DHCP.
And then make sure if you've
got spanning tree enabled,
you're in a Cisco environment,
if you've got spanning tree enabled,
you should enable for port fast.
But again,
that's typical for most IT shops.
But again, just wanted to make
sure that was covered.
So now let's talk about
building maximum performance
and redundancy out of your Xsan.
Right, it's all about redundancy.
Well, the first thing I wanna
talk to you about is,
before we talk about really redundancy,
is making sure that not only
you've got good UPS and good power,
but that whoever you're gonna pick
to actually deploy the fiber between
your data center and your machines,
that that is done properly.
And we've seen so many situations where,
you know,
the customer tries to do it themselves,
they don't know how to handle, you know,
fiber, or they'll pick, you know,
a contractor that might not
be certified to actually,
you know,
terminate and set up your fiber properly.
So it is really important to make sure
that the fiber is done the right way and
that you pick someone who's certified and
who will give you a DB output reading of,
you know,
each strand of fiber that's being
pulled and make sure that the
fiber has been terminated properly,
okay?
Another thing to talk
about and mention is,
some corporations,
you might have their data center
on one floor and your edit
machines might be on another floor.
And that means that there's
some longer distances to cover.
And what you can do in that situation is
you could possibly have the fiber switch,
the fabric managing your backend
server architecture and the data center
and have a second fabric that is,
the one that where all your
clients are connecting to.
And then you can interconnect
those two fabrics using some,
you know, higher speed, you know, GBIX.
And you've got some long distance
GBIX that are up there and they're
actually available on the Apple store.
So again, you know, make sure that if you
are going long distances,
you know, you wanna, you know,
the typical standard is 50 micron.
There's some 62 and a
half micron out there.
And if that's what you have in the walls,
you wanna make sure that the patch cable,
the patch cables that are gonna go
between the wall and the machine or
between the data center patch cable
and the server are 62 micron as well.
It can be 50,
but our recommendation again,
is to make sure that the patch
cables match whatever you
have running in your building.
So again, the beauty with Xsan 2,
Leopard and the Promise Storage is
you can truly build a
completely redundant system.
So we've got active-active
controllers now on the storage.
You've got the multi-pathing,
which works just
amazingly well in Leopard.
You've got dual power
supplies on the servers.
And so it makes it really easy
for you to build a fully meshed
architecture with your fabric.
And so again,
our recommendation is if you buy Xsan
and you're looking for high availability,
that you build it just this way.
Dual metadata controllers,
you get two fiber channel switches,
right?
And again,
you just calculate the total amount
of ports you need and make sure
that you balance that across the
two fiber channel switches and then
the amount of storage that you need.
So pretty straightforward.
But again, here, what I could do in this
scenario is I could literally,
and I've done it before,
for the customers who've seen the demo,
you can literally just pull the
power on the fiber channel switch
and the system will just behave
and work exactly the same way.
There's no drop whatsoever by pulling one
of the power switches out of the fabric.
The Xsan just keeps on working.
You might lose some throughput
because you're not taking advantage
of the multi-pathing anymore,
but the system will just
stay up and keep working.
So let's talk quickly about Multisan.
And Multisan,
the beauty about Multisan is it really
is a per volume controller provisioning.
So that allows you to
assign a set of Xsers,
metadata servers to manage
a specific set of volumes.
So pretty straightforward and we'll
show you just a quick diagram so
you can understand in what situation
you might wanna use Multisan.
So the first thing is,
let's assume you've got a set of editors
and you've got a production volume
and those editors are editing all
day long on the production volume and
you've got 20 plus editors on there.
Well, you can basically have a set of
metadata servers managing that volume,
right?
With spotlight turn on
and all the indexing and
everything going on properly.
And then let's assume that some of that
content then is now going to Xsan 2.
So you can actually get a set
of metadata servers that are
actually playing out to air.
And you wanna make sure that if your
editors are really banging on the Xsan,
right?
And there's obviously,
there's always gonna be throughput
limitations of the Xsan depending
on how many editors you have.
You don't wanna get any drop
frame happening when you're
actually playing out to air.
That would not be a good thing.
So what you do is you
basically segregate,
you move that data very easily from the
production volume to the play out volume.
And then you can just
sort of isolate the two,
you know, controllers managing
that play out volume.
And that way you've kind of
isolated the two volumes.
And if there is, you know,
for some reason or another,
some issue on the production volume,
your play out volume will stay, you know,
up and everything is just
gonna keep on chumming along.
So make sure you do that
again for high availability.
And if you're in, you know,
some critical situations
Another tip is, you know, domain,
you know, lock the domain ID.
So if you look at the
screenshot on the up there,
there's a feature here where
you've got the domain ID lock.
And you can see that by default,
that domain ID lock is set to disable.
Now, this is critical because now
we're talking about redundancy,
right?
So most of you will basically
get two Fiber Channel switches,
right, for multi-pathing.
And what happens is when
you power those switches,
they have that domain ID lock, you know,
lock set to disable and they
all have the same domain ID.
So for those of you who
remember the old SCSI days,
right, you went,
you had the little wheel on the back and
you'd set the number from zero to seven,
right?
Well, this is about the same thing.
You have to go in,
you edit the properties of
your QLogic switch and you
lock the domain ID to its own,
you know, unique number.
And what happens is if there is a
power failure and your system all
comes back up at the same time,
there's not gonna be any
domain ID conflict with
your Fiber Channel switches.
So simply go in, you know,
change the domain ID and lock it to a
specific number and you'll be all set.
As far as how to configure
the clients and the storage,
well, usually what you do, is, you know,
the port type,
the port state and the speed stays,
you know, to online and auto detect.
Port type can stay at a GL and then
the IO stream guard usually is set to
enable and device scan set to disable.
On the storage,
you actually disable the IO stream guard.
So that's really the
most critical point here.
For any type of storage
or tape libraries,
you wanna disable the IO stream
guard on the target devices.
Thank you.
So now let's talk a little bit about
best Xsan volume configurations.
How many people were in
the session last year?
Okay, so you saw the amount
of time we talked about,
kind of like, you know,
best configurations and how to set up,
you know, per storage pools,
four LUNs per storage pool.
We spent a lot of time talking about
best practices around Xsan 1.4.
Well, the good news is the engineering
team has been really hard at work
to make things much simpler for,
you know, you folks, for the admins,
right?
And so now you've got those
presets where you can on the fly,
when you launch the Xsan 2 admin,
you can actually pick, you know,
the best optimization,
the best volume configs
for the work you wanna do.
So for those of you who were in the
iCal Server session prior to this one,
you can go in and pick
Calendar Server Cluster,
and that'll optimize, you know,
the block size and the stripe breadth and
everything you need to actually deploy,
you know, an iCal Server.
If you wanna go uncompressed HD,
you can just basically
pick the pull down.
So the point of it is you really
wanna pick one of those settings,
right?
Because that's where the magic happens.
And the magic is you've
got all your data LUNs,
you're gonna take all your LUNs,
drag them onto the volume,
and it will automagically
basically assign,
you know, the right amount of LUNs per
storage pool and do it all for you.
And that also applies to
when you expand your volume,
you know, down the road.
So it's very neat and
much easier than it was,
you know, in the 1.4 days.
So we talked last year about
the fact that you wanna do,
you know, for video,
you wanna do four LUNs per storage pool.
Well, again, that's the standard now.
And so it just automatically
does it for you.
So the assistant does the work for you.
You still wanna combine the, you know,
all your LUNs that build a storage
pool all have to be of the same size.
So that is really still
critical for any deployment.
And your storage pool should still
be in a RAID 1 configuration.
So there's no changes there,
no RAID 5 or RAID 1E.
There really is no need for that.
Just make sure you've got a RAID 1.
And with the Promise RAID,
what's very neat is you can
actually have both the metadata and
a data LUN on the same controller,
right?
So we've got a lot of scripts that are
available off the Apple support website
that you can download and apply to the
Promise storage to help you configure
this and optimize it for your Xsan.
And for Xsan usage.
So take advantage of those scripts.
And as well on the metadata side,
you know, as people grow and not just,
you know, for video, but start using Xsan
for file serving and,
you know, directories or iCal, you know,
you might have millions
of files on your SAN.
And so make sure that you
understand that your metadata LUN,
right?
It's gonna use about 10 gigabytes
of space for about 10 million files.
So if you're gonna be in a
situation where you're gonna be
dealing with a lot of small files,
you wanna make sure you
take that into account.
But it's actually quite straightforward
in Xsan 2 to grow that metadata
LUN as well and to just expand it.
So again, data-lun best practices.
You can see here,
we've just picked by default,
we went in and picked the HD option.
So you can see that the block
allocation is set to 16K.
You should never go beyond 16K.
Okay, there is no reason for you to
ever go beyond 16K block size.
There was some documentation
at some point that might've
said something different.
16K is the block size that is optimal
for any type of uncompressed video.
So just stick with that.
Round robin is the allocation strategy.
And then as Jason discussed earlier,
you should really use ACLs now.
I mean, those are solid and work very
well with 10.5 and Final Cut.
So let me turn it back over to Jason and
to talk to you about about affinities.
Jason.
Okay, affinities.
Affinities are a way for you to
steer data to specific set of storage
based on a policy that you define.
You configure these using
the file management pane.
You actually assign them to folders
in the file management pane.
And the affinities are actually set up
and defined when you create the volume.
If you noticed in JD's earlier slide
in the volume creation assistant,
when you are dragging
LUNs into the volume,
you're actually dragging those
to what we call an affinity tag.
And one affinity tag in Xsan
2 can actually be associated
with multiple storage pools.
That's different from Xsan 1.
And that's what allows us to be able to
split your storage into multiple storage
pools sort of underneath the hood.
So one critical tip,
and this is a question I field a lot,
when you are moving a file from
one folder to another and those
folders have different affinities
but that they're in the same volume,
you have to understand that
when you do that in the finder,
it does not actually copy the file.
It renames the file.
It gives it just a different path.
And the reason that's important
is because a file inherits
its affinity from its parent
folder when the file is created.
When you're renaming a file,
you're not creating a file.
So if you actually want to assign that
file to the new affinity and get it
actually migrated to the other storage,
make sure you hold on the option
key when you drag it in the finder.
That tells finder to copy the file.
When it copies the file, it, you know,
creates a new file, moves the data there,
it gets steered to the
appropriate storage,
and then once that's done,
you can then delete the file from
the old folder just by dragging it in
the trash and emptying the trash can.
There's actually a KBase article on that.
See the slide for more info.
So that's all I have on affinities.
JD is now gonna talk
about backing up Xsan.
- Thanks, Jason.
So backup is critical, right?
We all know this.
How many people actually
backup their Xsan today?
Wow, that's pretty amazing.
So we went from pretty much everyone
raising their hand in this room
that are having Xsan deployed to
probably about 10% of the people
in this room actually backing up.
Well, you know, let's talk about this.
And, you know,
some of you might not have the, you know,
the money to deploy or your
Xsan is so big that you just
don't know what to do with it.
But the first thing you should do is
at least backup your config files,
right?
So anytime you make a
change to your Xsan,
it is critical that you actually,
you know,
backup those configuration files.
So if you're not backing up your
data and you feel like you can
restore it within 10 minutes,
you're really good.
But at least just
backup the config files.
And that's really simple.
You can just do, you know, CV gather,
which is one way of doing it,
but that doesn't give you, you know,
a way to restore it very quickly.
So our recommendation is to use
a tar command to actually just
tar up the config directory.
And you should do that both
on the metadata master as
well as on the replica.
And then obviously you take that email,
you take that configuration file,
you email it to your mom,
to your parents, to your, you know,
on a DVD, to your best friends.
Because you want to make sure you've
got multiple copies of that and
those are accessible at any time.
So make sure you do that.
Another nice tidbit is the log files,
right?
So if you have a lot of
logs that get generated,
make sure you actually, you know,
script that and maybe in a
launch D job and have those logs
backed up on a regular basis.
Because if you ever run into a problem,
you want to go back, you know,
and figure out what the,
where it happened.
And possibly if there is an issue,
the log is going to get filled with
the same issue over and over again.
So you want to go back and
figure out exactly what happened
when the problem went on.
That's on the metadata controller,
correct.
Yes.
So, you've backed up your config file.
You now have money for those of you who
didn't raise their hand in the room.
And you're ready to either
implement disk to disk,
right?
You're buying more storage and
you're backing up your data,
or at least your project files, right?
That would be a good first step.
And, or you've got a tape device.
You've got money to now
purchase a tape device.
So what software do you use?
Well, you know,
there's three major software vendors
that actually offer both server
and client solutions on the Mac.
And those are vendors
that are enterprise level,
you know, backup solutions.
So they can back up, you know,
20 terabytes, 30 terabytes,
50 terabytes of data.
You know,
they're definitely enterprise level,
you know, backup solutions.
So you've got ATempo, Archiware,
German company,
PressStore is the product,
and you've got Backbone, NetVault.
So those are kind of the top three
backup vendors that our customers use,
you know, around the world.
And then you,
if you're in a larger IT infrastructure
and you already have Tivoli or Veritas,
those vendors don't
have a server product,
but they do have a
client agent on the Mac.
So you could possibly load that
client agent on your SAN and
backup your SAN that way.
Make sure that client agent
actually works over a fiber channel,
because if you do backup
your SAN over a gig E,
the restore time might
be just a little slow.
- Like in a matter of weeks.
So again, you always, and again,
once you back it up,
make sure you test or restore, right?
And that you can actually
restore your data.
I mean, that's also really important
before you go into production.
So we just,
we see a lot of fun things out there.
So Xsan support,
all of those products support
Xsan and obviously Leopard.
So tape device.
So there's a lot of
tape devices out there.
A lot of the vendors work
at the lower SCSI level,
Fiber Channel level.
So they pretty much work with all
the vendors that we talked about.
If you're running kind of
low on Fiber Channel ports,
a nice way to save money and is to
basically get a second Fiber Channel card
on that server that is actually gonna
be acting as your tape backup device.
And we've got some nice four port Fiber
Channel cards now that are available.
So you should probably get one
of those for that backup server.
So you've got two ports for multi-pathing
going to your Xsan and you've got
two ports left for your tape device.
Assuming it's a small to
medium sized tape device.
And so you can just connect
it directly to the server.
You go into system profiler,
you can just make sure that it
actually sees the tape device and
then you can install the third party
backup product and configure it.
If you wanna connect the tape
device to the Fiber Channel switch,
our recommendation is always
to create a soft zone.
That's what's best practices.
And into that soft zone,
you would obviously have the Fiber
Channel ports of that backup server.
And you'd have the tape device
that is also a part of that.
So how to repair your sand volume.
Well, the first thing I wanted to
mention is when you buy Xsan,
you get 90 days of
free AppleCare support.
So make sure you take advantage of that,
right?
So you should really, you know,
call AppleCare.
You should make sure you do get Xsan
support when you buy Xsan and make sure
that the AppleCare person is on the phone
with you if you do run into a situation.
But if you want to
attempt it by yourself,
you're more than welcome to.
And you can go to apple.com/support,
pull up this article 301-911.
911 is a good last three-digit
number right there.
And it'll basically run you through,
you know, how to, you know,
what are some of the things to
run through and the commands
that are up there like CVFSCK to
check your volume and repair it,
okay?
So again,
Pretty straightforward.
Now, when you, again, best practices is,
we talked about a lot of things,
but you know,
you should really make sure that
you've got the right amount of,
you know, support available.
Those are available from Apple,
so just look at those.
You've got Xsan support,
you've got support
available for your hardware,
and obviously, if you want us to come in
and help you deploy it,
we're also available.
So in summary, let's talk about some
high-level best practices.
We talked about DNS.
I'm just re-emphasizing that.
So you will set up DNS.
Excellent.
Make sure your date and
time is synchronized.
We all love single sign-on.
We all love Kerberos.
We all love tying to open
directory or active directory.
That requires that your date and
time be synchronized properly.
So make sure that you're pointing
to the right NTP server and that
that's all working properly.
Make sure you backup your Xsan
config files every time you make a
change to your Xsan configuration.
And another fun one is make sure
that your local boot drive is picked,
is selected on all your clients
as well as all your servers.
By default, it should be,
but we have seen situations
where if you do a firmware update
for some reason or another,
that startup disk,
that local disk will get unselected.
And if that machine reboots,
we've got this nice feature that
allows you to actually boot,
you know, storage over fiber channel.
So it will try to actually boot the
machine first over fiber channel,
which is not a good thing, right?
So make sure you've got your
local boot drive set to boot
on the internal hard drive.
And then finally, you know, firmware.
So you've got, you know, promise raids,
you've got XServe raids,
you bought the parts
kits that go with it,
right?
Obviously, you always get a parts kit.
And, you know,
there's firmware updates that come out.
Well,
that controller that's just waiting,
collecting dust in your parts kit,
that firmware might not be up to date.
So again,
when you've got maintenance windows,
make sure you put that controller
in and make sure that controller
has always the same firmware as
what you're running in production.
You know, don't defrag your volume,
you know, every day or every week.
There's no need for that.
If you,
as long as you follow the guidelines,
which is I shall buy new storage,
you know, additional storage and expand
my Xsan when my volume goes
over 80%, you'll be fine.
We all follow that rule, right?
Yeah.
And that's what email
notifications are for.
You just set that number up and
it'll just email you and say,
"Hey." I mean, we'll ask Jason,
maybe he'll add a feature where
it'll just go automatically
to the Apple Store and just,
you know,
buy additional storage on the fly,
an entry to put the credit card in.
So, or the channel, I'm sorry.
If you do run into a situation where,
you know,
you're getting dropped frames for
some reason or another on a file,
it might be due to the fact that
the volume is getting full or that
file might be over fragmented.
So, a simple test would be to
simply duplicate that file,
relink it to that file and see
if the drop frame goes away.
So, that's just a quick tidbit.
But if you are running into situations
where your volume is getting full,
you know, by simply duplicating
the folder or the file,
the finder does a great job doing
what's called pre-allocation.
And what it'll do is that it'll be
really smart in terms of finding,
you know, a contiguous amount of space
and basically writing that
file in a single chunk.
Make sure you test the metadata failover.
So, that was not, you know,
as easy in XN1 days.
You could do it from the command
line or you could pull the power
or you can shut down the server.
But here you can simply go into the GUI,
and basically say failover
and test the failover.
You could still power, you know,
pull the power, you know,
cord on the server as well
if you want to do that.
You're more than welcome to.
Make sure you connect all the
devices to dual power supplies.
Again, we talked about that, but,
you know, very important.
And those should be in different
PDUs and different circuits,
right?
So, again, make sure that you work
with your electrician.
You go all the way back to the
circuit panel and it's not all
tied into a single circuit.
And make sure you understand the bring
up and bring down process of the SAN,
as well as all the other individuals
that would be maintaining the system.
And then email notification.
There's a lot of areas for you to where
you need to configure email notification,
right?
So, let's make sure we all do that.
You've got server, you know,
a server monitor.
You've got XN.
You have your UPSs.
You've got the promise storage.
You've got the SNMP monitoring card.
So, there's a lot of areas to
set up email notifications.
So, make sure you do that.
So, you do get the notifications
if something goes wrong.
And even the fiber channel
switch has a notification.
So,
and then register your support contracts,
right?
Really important.
Because, you know, Murphy's Law, right?
After a year, you know,
a year and a month, something goes bad,
you need to call support.
You want to make sure those
are active and working.
So, I'm going to bring it up to
Jason for upcoming XN releases.
Great.
Thanks.
All right.
So, the site sort of let the
cat out of the bag for me.
This used to be a build, but... So,
going live tomorrow,
Xsan 2.1 is going to be released.
It's available on
Apple Developer Connection today
for all of you to download,
and it goes live on
Software Update tomorrow.
So, I encourage you to download
that and install it.
Lot of bug fixes in Xsan Admin,
so I encourage you to
go ahead and do that.
There's also been a lot of
improvements to the Xsan 1 to
Xsan 2 upgrade and migration path.
So, if you're currently on Xsan 1 and
you're going to upgrade to Xsan 2,
before you actually reboot that system
and get that whole process started,
make sure you run Software Update to
get Xsan 2.1 installed first,
because the upgrade process
works much better in Xsan 2.1.
And again, it's available on ADC now.
Now, for those of you who have been
following the sort of OS goings-on,
you've probably heard of Snow Leopard.
Snow Leopard does not
currently work with Xsan 2.
And so,
I'm just going to let you know that
there will be an Xsan 2.2 that will
be compatible with Snow Leopard.
It will include 64-bit support
on both the client side,
the kernel extensions,
as well as the server.
And we're also adding native extended
attribute and resource fork support,
so all those little Apple double
files are going to go away.
We hope to get a big
performance boost out of that.
And, yeah.
Another thing to keep in mind
is we will not be supporting
Xsan 1 clients with Xsan 2.2.
So, make sure you get updated before
you start planning to upgrade
to Snow Leopard and Xsan 2.2.
And for those of you who
participate in the seeding program,
just, you know, watch for that.
Watch Apple Developer Connection
for seeding info.
And so, that's basically it.
It's time to wrap up.
JD will come on up and
finish the wrap-up.
We'll be up on stage,
then we'll answer questions.
We'll bring up a couple of
engineers to do field Q&A.
Get the mic back on?
Perfect.
Yeah, so thank you all for using Xsan.
We saw a great amount
of show of hands today.
So, we appreciate your support.
So, Xsan is a very flexible product.
So, take advantage of all the
new functionality in Xsan 2.
And, you know, planning is everything.
So, make sure you do plan your Xsan
installation ahead of time.
And work with your IT group to make
sure that networking and IP and
everything is in place for the setup.
And don't cut corners, please, right?
You know, make sure you've got redundancy
built into the system because,
you know, most of you in the room,
you know,
the people that you're supporting
are the people who are bringing
in the money in the company,
right?
They're the video editors,
they're the graphic designers,
and you want to make sure
you keep those people happy.
And backup is very important.
So, I want to see more show of hands next
year when you guys all come back at the
developer conference in terms of backup.
And finally,
if you want us to help you with deploying
Xsan and actually installing your Xsan,
you can go to apple.com/services
or just ping us on consulting
services at apple.com.
We have a team that's deployed over
500 Xsans in the past two years.
So, we'll be glad to help
you and lend a hand.
And you've got a group of people here
that are more than willing to help.
And with that, oh, upcoming sessions.
So, after this,
there's going to be a lab.
All of us are going to be in the
lab to help answer questions,
more questions related to
your specific environment.
There's a great podcast
producer session tomorrow.
And podcast producer uses
Xsan on the back end.
So, a good session to attend.
And then there's also a best
practice Mac OS X panel on Friday.